---
layout: post
title: The WHO media brief - 30/3
description: "Unity is the only option we have to defeat CoViD-19."
summary: "Unity is the only option we have to defeat CoViD-19."
tags: [summary]
---

Full video: [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VWrDMJGOBD0)

### The WHO media brief:
*  **Update:**
    *   Rapid increase of need in the healthcare system.
    *   Review the past lessons of the previous outbreaks.
    *   Actions from the WHO to support countries.
        *   Guideline
        *   Manual cover to set up facilities.
    *   WHO collaboration with G20, partnership with PPE.
    *   Implementing vital aspects.
        *   Government measures
        *   Support refugees and other government groups.
        *   Cooperation with community for resilience and mental health.
    *   Two months, the WHO published the preparation toward CoViD-19.
    *   Update of finance support from countries.
    *   Unity is the only option we have to defeat CoViD-19.
    *   Humility.

### Questions:
*   **Recommendation Birth, newborn and breast breeding. Example with Portugese** > the WHO guideline Certain Precaution but it will be done safely.
*   **Indonesia: What needs to be done more for the government**? > Opportunity to implement a comprehension effort of containment and oppression. Update a collaboration between the WHO and Indonesia.
*   **The US: allow to use** > No proven therapeutic approach towards CoViD-19, but for the past diseases like MERS, SARS. Mentions about how this approach helped. The WHO doesn't encourage doctors to use it.  The WHO recommendations.
*   **Africa does not have enough capacity for producing PPE and ventilators. What could the WHO do?** > Send diagnostics, PPEs. Mentions about the difficulty of ventilators, e.g. technical perspective, human training. Reinforce of the live saving component. Reinforce a message of collaboration for clinical and medical professionals.
*   **Austria: recommend using masks in the shops** > Don’t recommend using masks in the public. Should you mask for people in the frontline.
*   **India: Lockdown. Advice to the government about the humanity crisis. Clarify community transmission** > Movement restriction is needed to take very carefully. Need to implement measures. This is up to the government. It is essential about communication. Public health surveillances. How the WHO categorizes. How the WHO sees a difference between countries.
*  **European countries: Spain and Italy assume they reach a peak. The UK think that they are reaching a peak. Any sign to know that the country is reaching a peak** > Get the baseline in Asian countries, especially Wuhan. Remind how to see the data. What we see today is what happened is two weeks. Explain how social distance works. How it is going down, it is not about lockdown and letting it go. We must focus on what we can now. The physical distance will not solve problems but only buy it more time.
*  **FDA has not approved a wide observation. Question about chlorine and hydrochloride**> Safe and effective in the human body. Cite about the past experiment in France: small size, observing, and outcome, this not about cure, but about preventing people from moderate to severe disease. Explain About randomized control group, does a drug work? A notice about a drug itself not about age, gender, state of illness, external factors like hard working health professionals. There are a number of trials. Difficulty: small size.
*   **Bloomberg: a difference between Europe vs China. Home quarantine: is it effective**? > A difference between isolation and quarantine.
*   **Discrepancy between math of preventing spread. Question about quality research** > What we know it works is ppl washing your hands, physical distance works, how to use PPEs.
*   **Testing: some countries say that they say it’s useless. Question about baseline to use testing** > Testing is a detective system. A return rate of testing varies. Expectation 10 negative test : 1 positive test. Argument that we don’t have enough tests. First is increasing the capacity of the lab, availability of testing. No single use. Without testing, it is like moving with blind folded. Reinforce that we don’t have a one-fit-all solution. Each and every situation is very unique. The most important is how to trigger the human spirit in unisom to treat disease.

<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β20 -->
