---
layout: post
title: The WHO media brief - 1/4
description: Rapid escalation.
summary: Rapid escalation.
tags: [summary]
---

Full video: [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZvVgHEHVD8)

Warning: This is my personal quick note when following the WHO livestream. It is not complete, lots of mistakes, but basically have a structure and message. I leave it here for those who want to quickly learn about media brief of the WHO.

### Message from the General Director
  *   Rapid escalation:
      *   Exponential growth.
      *   Soon to reach 1M in a few days.
      *   Africa and South America: serious social and economical consequences.
  *   Call to all government about social welfare for the vulnerable population:
      *   Example: India: 24B package for food, transfer, free-cooking.
  *   Three months ago, we knew nothing about CoViD-19, but we learned more collectively.
      *   Update guidance with an example about hand washing and physical distancing.
      *   Collaborate with research about generating evidence about drugs.
      *   Working with the government to step up the production like masks.
          *   Debate about medical masks.

### Questions:
  *   **A message to Brazilian people and leadership** > Reinforce a message about comprehensive approach to combat CoViD-19. Take CoViD-19 seriously. Aggressive preparation. Inform and educate the community about disease.
  *   **Comment about data of China about asymptomatic cases** > A process of how the WHO see cases - confirmed regardless of symptoms.
  *   **Ramadan festival. What is the message for the religion leader in this period of the year?** > The role of business leader and religious leader in this pandemic.
  *   **How do you see CoViD-19 in Central America and message to gov?** > They are the beginning of the outbreak. Each country has a different social, economic situation and the vulnerable population. Need to be sensitive. And reinforce the guideline on the website for countries, but need to be tailored depending on each.
  *   **Ask about recommendations for the Kosovo situation?**
  *   **How to recommend the progress made by the WHO on the first day?** > Need time to see a result lockdown and shutdown. Need to be persistent in the period of time because people in the frontline need certainty. Need to comprehensively and measure an impact.
  *   **Notice from General Director:** The first ever coronavirus pandemic in the world. So we are in the learning process. And its behaviour is unknown. During shutdown, there will be economical consequences. But more importantly, individuals who need to work to have daily bread. Many developing countries can not support themself during lockdown. This is when we need solidarity. Systematically assess actions during countries. List of questions of WHO put for governments.
  *   **What the WHO can do for education?** >
  *   **Russia: Could you please about Ginger?** > A difference between something can cure a disease or remedy. No proven therapy for CoViD-19.
  *   **How individual can play a role?** > A real threat to everyone. Everyone has a role and a duty to protect themself, their family and their loved one.
  *   **Nigeria: How is the WHO helping Nigeria with medical supplies?** > The WHO currently supports tests, control, etc. closely hand in hand. The first country in Africa established a full center of disease control. But acknowledge diversity of context, challenges, etc.
  *   **Switzerland: How can the public trust the number given China? What makes a country about transparency and open in data sharing?** > Looked at peer-review research from medical researchers about CoViD from Japan, Singapore, Hongkong and China. Teleconference with all countries around the world to share real updates and daily data. A lack of information because of an overwhelming system or unavailable data. Talk about priority with solidarity and research to learn about this disease. Set an open mind and trust what is coming but ready to verify.

<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β21 -->
