---
layout: post
title: The WHO media brief - 21/3
description: A message to young people.
summary: A message to young people.
tags: [summary, CoViD-19]
---

###  1. The general director update:
*   Postpone Olympics and Paralympics to next year.
*   Physical distance does not mean social distance.
*   Lost more than 16,000 lives.
*   Reminds of actions to stop community transmissions and avoid more severity, especially those lockdown. 6 key actions:
    *   Expand, train and deploy healthcare and public health workforce.
    *   Implement a system to find susceptive case at community level.
    *   Wrap up production and availability capacity of testing
    *   Identify and keep facility to treat and isolate patients.
    *   Develop a clear plan and process to quarantine contact.
    *   Refocus a whole government on suppress and control CoViD-19
*   Humanitarian crisis
*   A message of protecting the vulnerable population
*   Communicating compelling and effectiveness of public health: promote a video strategy.
###    2. Questions:
*   What type of concrete actions from developed countries to support Africa before it is too late? > Answer about how the WHO have supported Africa. Reinforce a message of actions, hope and solidarity.
*   President of Brazil: his position about CoViD-19? > WHO trust a country to manage their situation. Mention about 6 actions.
*   Italy: Ask the WHO about testing and surveillance in Italy > Describe how the WHO sees what is happening in Italy, especially the situation, challenges and highlights positive progress in the country.
*   Alternative testing by innovative tech > collaboration about surveillance, predictive modeling and other applications. Some examples through collaborations and partnerships.
*   Ask advice for 3-week India lockdown for policyholders > Reinforce the message of 6 recommendations and break-down strategy.
*   Medical supplies chain w.t.r regions > Chain: Raw material, production and delivery. Shortage of ventilators and PPEs (masks, gloves, suits, etc.)
*   About modelings, how to use > Model allows us to see scenarios, but also allows us to see how measure could help us reduce numbers. Mentions about coordination across countries.
*   Advice of Olympics committee > Progress of the WHO.
*   Questions about the President of the US towards the pandemic > Reinforce the role of the government to fight against the pandemic. And the previous collaboration between the WHO and FDA as well as other agencies.

<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β20 -->
