---
layout: post
title: The WHO media brief - 27/3
description: A message to young people.
summary: A message to young people.
tags: [summary, CoViD-19]
---

### Update from GM: where we are, what are doing and what we need to do
  *   A meeting with G20s: Fight, unite and ignite;
  *   A meeting of minister of health;
  *   Medical supplies to those in need;
  *   Set a priority to health workers;
  *   Set a priority to production and capacity of medical supplies.
  *   Announced a trials of therapeutics in Norway and Spain;
  *   Reinforce a message of using evidence, not drugs with no evidence.
  *   Whatsapp: update 12M users and an extension to other languages.
  *   A notice of cybersecurity from WHO.
###   Questions:
  *   **About new data **> Update of other countries. Highlight topics, processes, and common protocols. Current state: on progress, no result yet. Need more data to propose a policy.
  *   **Update about symptoms of disease** > Need a well-characterized description to understand more about this disease. A reminder to the young population about their role in this pandemic.
  *   **Question about counting methods with examples from China**. They don’t count asymptomatic patients.
  *   **How long would CoViD-19 last? Is there any proof about the weather's impact? **> No specific answer, depend on countries. Elaboration about how a country could treat this disease.
  *   **Rate increases** > More tests, more increases. Reinforce of successful countries. It is more about effort.
  *   **Specific medication and what other issues in Nigeria **> No specific medication approved for CoViD-19, but there are several clinical trials for therapeutic intervention. Risk is rising but number is low. Notice about strong public health actions, especially protection for vulnerable populations. Reinforce solidarity of government and community.
  *   **Aggressive actions and surveillance Vs. human right (individual freedom) **> A choice, e.g. stay at home, restricting travels, we have to make as a collective security. Reframe as personal data, data protection vs altruism.
  *   **Message about a situation of EU coordination to tackle CoViD-19** > New information to the WHO. Reinforce a message of solidarity.

Full video: [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1G4hDXaaTWk)


<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β20 -->

<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β20 -->
